So to useDebugValue,
this is the brand new one,
this is one that was not
in intermediate reactive 2.
And again, it's normally for
authors of library, so
that they can kind of tell you
what their custom hooks are doing.
Let's take a look at it,
let's say I make a custom hook here,
that's called use is raining.
And, in this particular case
it's going to say, randomly,
half the time is going to be raining half
the time it's not going to be raining.
So if you look down here, do you need
a coat today, the answer is yes.
If I refresh this enough times,
it's eventually gonna tell me no or
maybe, right.
So, I have this hook now here,
is called user is raining and
you can pretend that goes off to an API or
fetches all the weather information and
tells me, do you need a coat today or
not, is it raining or not?
So, it would be nice if I could open my
dev tools and take a look at this and
say like,
what is this actually giving back to me?
So, this is a way for
authors of libraries to tell you,
here's what my hook is doing for
you at the moment.
So if I click the React dev tools,
this is like the one that you would
find inside of your, like here,
in your components ones here.
This is like the React dev tools
it's just built into code sandbox,
same thing though,
same code and everything.
If I go down to my Debug value
component here and I click on it,
I know this might be a little bit small,
so let's make this a bit bigger.
And I click on that, so
I'm in my Debug value component
notice I have this hooks here.
This hooks thing where it says is not
raining, that's my use Debug value.
This is something that I can basically
put information in that's readable
by the React dev tools, so
I can kind of Debug what's going
on inside of my custom hooks.
And that's what this use
Debug value is doing.
Anything that you put in here is
you can just say ,useDebugValue.
And that's just gonna show up in there.
This is gonna allow you to
look at things in there.
Let's just copy that one out,
save it, refresh.
So, like you can see is raining there.
Whatever I put in that useDebugValue
is just gonna be showing up there,
inside of the hook there.
So, whatever you need there to Debug,
it's basically like a console log for
your custom hook.
If you have a hook that you're using
everywhere in your application,
like a custom hook that you made,
you might put one in there that might be
a good use case for you, otherwise,
you may never use this one.
So the question is,
Should you wrap everything in use memos,
like every callback that you ever have and
use memo?
And then, I'll talk about
the second part in a second.
I'm gonna say no, and I think it's a bad
idea and I don't think you should do that.
It's kinda going back to what I was saying
before, is like you should have a problem,
before you solve a problem.
Because that memorization is going to
sometimes cause you to not re-render
when you want it to re-render and
it's going to be difficult and
kinda fine tuned to
figure out what that is.
Now you might say, I always do and
I never run into a problem.
Someday you're going to run into
some nasty, gross problem and
it's gonna take you four hours
to figure out that it said,
damn use memo that you put in there,
right.
And I don't like those kind of problems.
And so, this is where I'm going back to
this use memo is going to save you minimal
amounts of re-renders if you're not
using it in this specific use case.
So, the potential of me wasting four hours
trying to figure out where I use memo is
going awry is just 100%
not worth it to me.
React in another self is a very performant
library, that if you're just writing code
the way that I'm showing you here,
it's plenty performance.
So, do not prematurely solve performance
problems where you have no performance
problems, or else, you're going to
start having bigger problems from your
performance optimizations.
This is just like a general
rule of thumb in coding all up,
have performance problems before
you solve performance problems.